Now when we use filters like this, it seems very useful and it is, we can use it to transform certain
outputs,
think about formatting a date by putting let's say a date filter which you create your own where you
then are able to configure the date or how it should be displayed.
But oftentimes, you think that a filter might solve a certain solution and there is a better alternative
available and that would be a computed property,
let me show you an example.
Imagine we have an array of fruits here,
now there we may have an apple,
we may have a banana and we may have a mango,
hope that is the name and a melon,
so we've got four fruit items there. Now it would be convenient to now be able to have it output as a
list here and then filter when we type in the input field.
So let's do this, I'll add a horizontal line, I'll add an input where I want to bind to or with v-model to
the filter text property which I'll also create,
so here we got filter text which is empty at the beginning.
And with that filter text here, I want to filter this unordered list where I loop with v-for and loop
through my fruit in fruits, like this,
this allows me to output fruit here.
Now if we have a look at this, what we see of course is our four fruits, that is normal
vuejs code as we learned it, we're not using any filters here. Now it would be convenient to somehow
add a filter here to say only output these fruits which match our filtered text, so if we entered an m in
there, we only want the add the fruit which starts with the m, let's say. So it would be convenient to say
and then here, this filter somehow, pipe filter after fruits.
Now the issue with such a filter is that this is very suboptimal from a performance perspective,
vuejs is not able to handle this greatly in the background as it is not able to detect when it should
rerun the filter or not, actually it will rerun the filter up on each re-rendering of the dom.
This of course is a huge performance hit because maybe you didn't change this input here but still
it needs to rerun the filter because it doesn't know that,
so this really is bad for performance
hence filters have been kind of limited in what they can do in vuejs 2.0, that was different in
vuejs 1.0 as a side note.
So what could we do in such a case where we want to filter an existing list? We can use a computed property,
we already learned about these earlier in the course.
The great thing about computed properties is vuejs knows on what such a property depends and therefore
only recalculates it
if something changes in the things we can use in this property or in this method it is then in
the end.
So let me demonstrate this, here
I want to add a new property filteredFruits, this is actually a method as all computed properties are and
here I want to return my fruits array
and since it is an array, I can call the filter method on this ES6 method. The filter method
now takes a callback which is executed on each element in this array, the element is then passed automatically
as an argument to this callback.
Now in this callback, I have to return all them elements and when I keep in this new array I'm generating, in
these filteredFruits array that is, it is a method
but keep in mind behind the scenes, vuejs will create a property based on this method which is
then recreated whenever some input changes, so whenever fruits changes or as I will soon implement it,
filter text.
So here I want to return each element which matches this filter text,
so the text entered by the user, this computed property will only be recalculated filter, text or fruits
changes,
therefore it's very performant,
it's not doing any unnecessary calculations and I can hence simply loop through my filtered fruits here,
that's a great alternative to a filter.
Now if we have a look, this still works but if I enter M for mango or melon, we only see these two, if
I enter a for apple, we only see this, if I have a lowercase a, we see banana and mango because these
two have a lowercase n.
If I now enter a and we see only banana and mango because these are the only two words which have a
and character sequence in them,
so this shows you how to create a better filter with vuejs.
This is not using vuejs filters at all,
we do that with the uppercase filter but for more complex transformations, you want to use a computed
property and that is something to keep in mind.
Filters can be a nice solution but oftentimes, computed properties are the better solution,
they can be more fine tuned to your needs and they are more performant.
So keep this in mind when working with filters,
you may of course use the normal filter here but again, definitely think about using a computed property
instead.